---
layout: docs
title: "Migrating From 0.2.x to 0.3.0"
---

## Migrating From 0.2.x to 0.3.0

There are several breaking changes in 0.3.0 when coming from the 0.2.x releases. This attempts to list the mayor 
changes needed to do in user code to be able to compile it with the new version.

### Class name changes

 * All expression nodes (`Expr` suffixed classes at `cron4s.expr` package) have been renamed with a `Node` suffix instead.
 * `cron4s.expr.AnyExpr` has been renamed to `cron4s.expr.EachNode`. The new name reflects better the semantics of the `*` inside a CRON expression.
 * `cron4s.types` package has been renamed to `cron4s.base`
 * `cron4s.types.HasCronField` has been renamed to `cron4s.base.Enumerated` and it's no longer higher kinded.
 * `cron4s.types.IsFieldExpr` has been renamed to `cron4s.expr.FieldExpr`.
 * `cron4s.ext.DateTimeAdapter` has been renamed to `cron4s.datetime.IsDateTime`.
 
### Public API operations

#### Errors

The type `cron4s.ParseError` that used to be returned from the `Cron("...")` factory method has been replaced by a sealed
class family. The old type was exposing some model objects from the internal parser implementation whilst the new one
offer a cleaner foundation.

The new error types are meant to make user easy to distinguish if a given error was caused by a problem during parsing
or due to validation constrains.

#### DateTime operations

CRON operations on DateTime representations have been unified for the three types of CRON expressions supported (full,
date only, time only). The built-in library support has been moved underneath the package `cron4s.lib`. This means that,
if wanting to use the Java 8 time support, the user will need these imports:

```tut:silent
import java.time._
import cron4s._
import cron4s.lib.javatime._
```

##### Individual fields

The DateTime API provided by individual expression fields has suffered a minor change to provide collisions with other
operations also available at the field level. For example, given the following inputs:

```tut
val Right(cron) = Cron("10-35 2,4,6 * ? * *")
val dateTime = LocalDateTime.of(2016, 12, 1, 0, 4, 9)
```

There were cases in which users could find a compilation error when using the operations `next`, `prev` and `step` in
individual field expressions when used with DateTime objects. This was due to the existence of operations with the
same names that take an `Int` as their parameter, leading to an overloaded method situation in which sometimes the
compiler refused to resolve the implicit that enable to perform such operation in the DateTime object:

```tut:fail
cron.seconds.next(dateTime)
```

To solve this problem the methods that operate on DateTime objects have been renamed including the `In` suffix:

```tut
cron.seconds.nextIn(dateTime)
```

This aligns them with the previously existent `matchesIn` method.