---
layout: docs
title: "Migrating From 0.3.x to 0.4.0"
---

## Migrating From 0.4.0 to 0.4.1

Only those that have created their own custom datetime library integrations need to do any kind of work migration work.

### Custom DateTime Integration Changes

Prior to 0.4.1, the `set` method in the `IsDateTime` typeclass had a `Option[DateTime]` return type. Implementors should
 return a `Some(...)` if assigning the new value to the given field succeeded and a `None` otherwise. This covered two
 possible cases: 1) Unsupported fields by the `DateTime` representation and 2) Assigning an invalid value to given field.
 
In 0.4.1 the signature has changed to return a `Either[DateTimeError, DateTime]`. Implementors must now return a
 `Right(...)` when assigning the new value succeeds and in case of failures they must choose one of the following:
 
 * `cron4s.datetime.UnsupportedField`: For signalling the fact that the given field is not supported by the `DateTime`
   representation.
   
 * `cron4s.datetime.InvalidFieldValue`: For signalling the fact that the field is supported but given value can not be
   assigned to the given field.
   
Please, review the documentation at [Custom DateTimes](https://alonsodomin.github.io/cron4s/docs/custom_datetime.html).

## Migrating From 0.3.x to 0.4.0

The path from 0.3.x version to 0.4.0 has some rough edges due to some small changes in the public API.
 
### AST Changes

Cron4s 0.4.0 comes (finally) with support for using `?` symbols in the _day of month_ and _day of week_ fields. This
 also means that the ast node that represents those fields has a type that is different from other ones. This prevents
 the programmatically creation of cron expressions using that symbol in fields where it is illegal.
 
The bad thing is that code that this breaks the binary compatibility of between 0.4.0 and previous 0.3.x and code that
 was accessing the fields themselves will need to be re-compiled.
 
### Breaking API Changes

These are the most notable changes in Cron4s that will require users to update their code to be able to use this version.

#### Node Step Semantic Changes

The semantics of the operations `step`, `next` and `prev` have slightly changed their semantics in 0.4.0. The key
 difference will be observed when the result of stepping over a field does not alter the field value; in such a case
 the `step` and related methods will return a `None`, meaning that there was no valid result.

#### JSR-310 Unification

Support for JSR-310 (the _Java Time API_), which was split between the packages `cron4s.lib.javatime` in the JVM and
 the package `cron4s.lib.threetenbp` in ScalaJS, has been unified in both platforms using the former package name.
 That means that ScalaJS code that was using the JSR-310 backport should change now to `cron4s.lib.javatime` and
 everything should work the same way.
 
> **Note**: JSR-310 support in ScalaJS is not yet final but it's mature enough to be used. This change removes the
burden of dealing with two separate namespaces for the same APIs.

#### Joda Time Module

Joda Time is support is no longer included in the core module, it has been moved to the `cron4s-joda` module. To 
 continue using it you must include this last module among your dependencies:
 
```
libraryDependencies += "com.github.alonsodomin.cron4s" %% "cron4s-joda" % "x.y.z"
```

#### Field access from expressions

The generic field access method named `field` has changed its signature. The change comes motivated by the new AST node
 and basically because in the previous version there was some awful runtime casting going on. The old and new signatures
 are as follows:
 
Old signature:

```scala
def field[F <: CronField](implicit unit: CronUnit[F]): Option[FieldNode[F]]
```

New signature:

```scala
def field[F <: CronField](implicit selector: FieldSelector[CronExpr, F]): selector.Out[F]
```

The new signature looks more complex than the previous one and sort of returns a magic type out of that implicit `selector`.
 However it comes with a big benefit:
 
The return type is now calculated at compile time and will return the right type for the given field or the code won't 
 compile. No need to work with the resulting `Option` anymore.
 
#### Scalaz VS Cats

Previous versions of `cron4s` were using [Scalaz](http://www.scalaz.org) internally as a foundation for some of the
 common abstractions used to implement the core functionality. In 0.4.0 Scalaz has been replaced by
 [Cats](http://www.typelevel.org/cats) for exactly the same purpise. Cats is more lightweight than Scalaz and provides
 better integration with the Scala standard library.